README.md, before:

# simple_shield
Basic Noir anonymous proof of membership

## Requirements

- Noir is based upon [Rust](https://www.rust-lang.org/tools/install), and we will need to Noir's package manager `nargo` in order to compile our circuits. Further installation instructions for can be found [here](https://noir-lang.github.io/book/getting_started/install.html).
    - If there are troubles installing `nargo` due to the C++ backend, replace the `aztec_backend` dependency in the `nargo` crate's `Cargo.toml` with this line:
    ```
    aztec_backend = { optional = true, git = "https://github.com/noir-lang/aztec_backend", rev = "d91c69f2137777cec37f692f98d075ae10e7a584", default-features = false, features = [
        "wasm-base",
    ] }
    ```
- The typescript tests and contracts live within a hardhat project, where we use [yarn](https://classic.yarnpkg.com/lang/en/docs/install/#mac-stable) as the package manager.

## Development

Start by installing all the packages specified in the `package.json`

```shell
yarn install
```

After installing nargo it should be placed in our path and can be called from inside the `circuits` folder. We will then compile our circuit. This will generate an intermediate representation that is called the ACIR. More infomration on this can be found [here](https://noir-lang.github.io/book/acir.html). `p` in `nargo compile p` is simply the name of the ACIR and witness files generated by Noir when compiling the circuit. These will be used by the tests.

```shell
cd circuits/
nargo compile p
```

Note that compilation requires specifying inputs in `Prover.toml` that satisfy the specified circuit constraints. This toml file has been filled based on calculations done previously inside of the test files. This example aims to show different strategies for proving and verifying with Noir.

We use these three packages to interact with the ACIR. `@noir-lang/noir_wasm` to serialize the ACIR from file. 
```
let acirByteArray = path_to_uint8array(path.resolve(__dirname, '../circuits/build/p.acir'));
let acir = acir_from_bytes(acirByteArray);
```

It is also possible to instead compile the program in Typescript. This can be seen inside the test file. Using this strategy would allow a developer to avoid use of the `nargo compile` command.

```
let compiled_program = compile(resolve(__dirname, '../circuits/src/main.nr);
const acir = compiled_program.circuit;
```

Then `@noir-lang/barretenberg` is used to generate a proof and verify that proof. We first specify the ABI for the circuit. This contains all the public and private inputs to the program and is generated by the prover. In the case of our typescript tests, each test acts as both the prover and the verifier, and only passes if the proof passes verification.

These values in the `abi` are all calculated inside the test file for each test, but an example is written out here.
```
let abi = {
  recipient: recipient,
  priv_key: `0x` + sender_priv_key.toString('hex'),
  note_root: `0x` + note_root, 
  index: 0,
  note_hash_path: [
    `0x` + note_hash_path[0],
    `0x` + note_hash_path[1],
    `0x` + note_hash_path[2],
  ],
  secret: `0x` + transfers[0].secret.toString('hex'),
  return: [`0x` + transfers[0].nullifier.toString('hex'), recipient]
};
```

We will then construct our prover and verifier from the ACIR, and generate a proof from the prover, ACIR, and newly specified ABI. 

```
let [prover, verifier] = await setup_generic_prover_and_verifier(acir);

const proof = await create_proof(prover, acir, abi);
```

The `verify_proof` method then takes in the previously generated verifier and proof and returns either `true` or `false`. A verifier also needs to accept the circuits public inputs in order to be valid. Our prover prepends the public inputs to the proof. 

```
const verified = await verify_proof(verifier, proof);
```

### Solidity Verifier

Once we have compiled our program and generated an ACIR, we can generate a Solidity verifier rather than having to use the verifier provided by `nargo` or Noir's typescript wrapper. 

In the `scripts` folder you will find a script for compiling a program and generating the Solidity verifier. You can call it using the command below (assuming you are in the root directory of the project).
```
npx ts-node ./scripts/generate_sol_verifier.ts
```

### Running tests

The tests show both the method of compiling the circuit using `nargo` and in Typescript. The tests also show how to complete proof verification using Typescript as well as with the Solidity verifier. Thus, to have all tests pass, it is necessary you follow all the commands listed or change the tests to your preferred method of compilation and/or proof verification.

This command will compile the Solidity verifier within the `contracts` folder and run all tests inside `./test/PrivateTransfer.test.ts`.
```
npx hardhat test
```

Commit message:

basic hardcoded test where solidity verifier from nargo contract verifies proof read from nargo proof file

README.md, after:

# simple_shield
Basic Noir anonymous proof of membership

## Requirements

- Noir is based upon [Rust](https://www.rust-lang.org/tools/install), and we will need to Noir's package manager `nargo` in order to compile our circuits. Further installation instructions for can be found [here](https://noir-lang.github.io/book/getting_started/install.html).
    - If there are troubles installing `nargo` due to the C++ backend, replace the `aztec_backend` dependency in the `nargo` crate's `Cargo.toml` with this line:
    ```
    aztec_backend = { optional = true, git = "https://github.com/noir-lang/aztec_backend", rev = "d91c69f2137777cec37f692f98d075ae10e7a584", default-features = false, features = [
        "wasm-base",
    ] }
    ```
- The typescript tests and contracts live within a hardhat project, where we use [yarn](https://classic.yarnpkg.com/lang/en/docs/install/#mac-stable) as the package manager.

## Development

Start by installing all the packages specified in the `package.json`

```shell
yarn install
```

After installing nargo it should be placed in our path and can be called from inside the `circuits` folder. We will then compile our circuit. This will generate an intermediate representation that is called the ACIR. More infomration on this can be found [here](https://noir-lang.github.io/book/acir.html). `p` in `nargo compile p` is simply the name of the ACIR and witness files generated by Noir when compiling the circuit. These will be used by the tests.

```shell
cd circuits/
nargo compile p
```

Note that compilation requires specifying inputs in `Prover.toml` that satisfy the specified circuit constraints. This toml file has been filled based on calculations done previously inside of the test files. This example aims to show different strategies for proving and verifying with Noir.

We use these three packages to interact with the ACIR. `@noir-lang/noir_wasm` to serialize the ACIR from file. 
```
let acirByteArray = path_to_uint8array(path.resolve(__dirname, '../circuits/build/p.acir'));
let acir = acir_from_bytes(acirByteArray);
```

It is also possible to instead compile the program in Typescript. This can be seen inside the test file. Using this strategy would allow a developer to avoid use of the `nargo compile` command.

```
let compiled_program = compile(resolve(__dirname, '../circuits/src/main.nr);
const acir = compiled_program.circuit;
```

Then `@noir-lang/barretenberg` is used to generate a proof and verify that proof. We first specify the ABI for the circuit. This contains all the public and private inputs to the program and is generated by the prover. In the case of our typescript tests, each test acts as both the prover and the verifier, and only passes if the proof passes verification.

These values in the `abi` are all calculated inside the test file for each test, but an example is written out here.
```
let abi = {
  recipient: recipient,
  priv_key: `0x` + sender_priv_key.toString('hex'),
  note_root: `0x` + note_root, 
  index: 0,
  note_hash_path: [
    `0x` + note_hash_path[0],
    `0x` + note_hash_path[1],
    `0x` + note_hash_path[2],
  ],
  secret: `0x` + transfers[0].secret.toString('hex'),
  return: [`0x` + transfers[0].nullifier.toString('hex'), recipient]
};
```

We will then construct our prover and verifier from the ACIR, and generate a proof from the prover, ACIR, and newly specified ABI. 

```
let [prover, verifier] = await setup_generic_prover_and_verifier(acir);

const proof = await create_proof(prover, acir, abi);
```

The `verify_proof` method then takes in the previously generated verifier and proof and returns either `true` or `false`. A verifier also needs to accept the circuits public inputs in order to be valid. Our prover prepends the public inputs to the proof. 

```
const verified = await verify_proof(verifier, proof);
```

### Solidity Verifier

On this branch specifically, we are just showing how to verify using the contract generated by `nargo contract`. This will be cleaned up further to reflect the strategy taken as the test is currently hardcoded.

Once we have compiled our program and generated an ACIR, we can generate a Solidity verifier rather than having to use the verifier provided by `nargo` or Noir's typescript wrapper. 

In the `scripts` folder you will find a script for compiling a program and generating the Solidity verifier. You can call it using the command below (assuming you are in the root directory of the project).
```
npx ts-node ./scripts/generate_sol_verifier.ts
```

### Running tests

The tests show both the method of compiling the circuit using `nargo` and in Typescript. The tests also show how to complete proof verification using Typescript as well as with the Solidity verifier. Thus, to have all tests pass, it is necessary you follow all the commands listed or change the tests to your preferred method of compilation and/or proof verification.

This command will compile the Solidity verifier within the `contracts` folder and run all tests inside `./test/PrivateTransfer.test.ts`.
```
npx hardhat test
```
